# Boundary Condition Input

A number of different methods of applying boundary conditions are provided.
Besides specifying constant scalar, vector, or tensor values as `value="..." [phase=""]`,
you can prescribe field values from other PDEs, previous simulations, or other external sources.
Just use the corresponding XML tags within the boundary condition tag.

## fileData

`<fileData>` can be used to define the right-hand side vector nodal quantities. For this purpose, one needs to provide a dat-file with node numbers and corresponding RHS values.

This input is only tested for right-hand side nodal values, like nodal forces in mechanics (`<force>` in MechPDE). Dirichlet BC in MechPDE was proven not to work correctly with it.<br>
For further information, please refer to the test case. It can be found [here](https://gitlab.com/openCFS/Testsuite). This folder represents how to load element-number based rhs from text file. The file is generated by [create_data_file.py](https://gitlab.com/openCFS/Testsuite/-/blob/master/TESTSUIT/Technical/NodalDataFile/create_data_file.py?ref_type=heads).


- Here, we have spacial dependent rhs (for mech-heat problem)
- In data file excitation example
-We need to know the element numbers for the named nodes `inclusion_nodes``
  - we could use make_mesh.py from NodalForceExpression and make use of the stored mesh.bc
  - In this example: assume
  ```bash
  cfs NodalDataFile -g
  ``` 
  performed, where the `-g` creates the .cfs file without parsing the pdes. Then use [create_data_file.py](https://gitlab.com/openCFS/Testsuite/-/blob/master/TESTSUIT/Technical/NodalDataFile/create_data_file.py?ref_type=heads)

To use the generated .dat file as RHS, refer to the lines in [NodalDataFile.xml](https://gitlab.com/openCFS/Testsuite/-/blob/master/TESTSUIT/Technical/NodalDataFile/NodalDataFile.xml?ref_type=heads)
```           
<force name="inclusion_nodes">
  <fileData file="nodal.dat"/>
</force>
```

## grid

The `<grid>` input allows specifying inhomogeneous Dirichlet BC. 
One may use the output results of openCFS (`.cfs`) as input for another model.

Another possible application would be to modify the openCFS result file (with python script) and specify needed BC manually for each node. For this purpose, a "fake" results file should be generated, modified, and finally applied as a BC to the matching model using the following code structures.

```
<displacement name="V_plate">
  <grid dofs="all">
    <defaultGrid quantity="mechDisplacement" dependtype="GENERAL">
      <globalFactor>1</globalFactor>
    </defaultGrid>
  </grid>
</displacement>
```

The grid input can be used e.g. as `<displacement>` BC in SmoothPDE and MechPDE.